Hey everybody welcome to lecture 49, so
in this lecture we're gonna be learning
about Kernel Destiny Estimation
plots also know as KDE plots.
So if you are a little fuzzy on your
statistics and can't quite remember how
the exactly the Kernel Density Estimation
Plots work, you can go ahead and
just check out the Wikipedia page
on Kernel Density Estimation Plots.
They're basically just
ways to estimate the pdf,
the probability density
function of random variables.
And you can see here,
here's a histogram on the left.
And on the right is
the Kernel density estimate.
And these KDEs are constructed
from just galciun
distribution plot on every data point,
and then you just sum them up.
So, what we're going to do in this lecture
is manually create this plot by summing up
those Gaussian curves, and
then we're going to use C born to
do the short cut method on that.
And we'll go over a little
bit of bandwidth selection.
We'll be using the Gaussian
approximation for it.
All right, so
let's go ahead and get started.
We're gonna have to do a lot of
imports like we did last time.
I highly suggest you just Edit > Copy,
Edit > Paste like I'm doing right now
from the IPython Notebook viewer.
So we just have our normal imports,
the stats imports, the plotting
modules and the libraries we'll use.
Let me fix that.
Okay.
And we have map plot inlines so
the plots appear.
In the iPython notebook.
So let's go ahead and
start off with making a KDE plot manually.
Let's just start with a simple rug plot.
Or some people also know
them as carpet plots.
All a rug plot does is it just puts
a tick wherever a value occurred.
So in order to plot something we need.
Something to plot so
let's get our data set.
And let's create that
from randn 25 points.
So we have our data set there, and
then we can use C born rugplot,
so sns.rugplot.
And call it on that data set.
And now we have our every tick is a spot
in that dataset, a value in that dataset.
So to make it a little clearer, let's
go ahead and set some y limits on that.
So I'm gonna say plt.ylim, and
then I can set the lower and
the upper y limits, so
I'm gonna set it from zero to one.
So I just get a bunch of little ticks.
Okay great.
So every tick is a point on that dataset,
excellent.
So let's go ahead and
plot a histogram on top of that.
So the way to plot a histogram
is you can say plt.hist, hist.
Input the dataset you wanna plot.
In this case it's just called dataset.
And if you wanna make it transparent
you can do that by passing alpha.
So you can put an alpha from zero to one.
Zero being totally clear,
one being totally opaque.
And in this case I'll just
use a value of .3 and
since I also wanna have
the histogram on top of my rug plot.
I will save my rug plot in
the same Ipython notebook cell and
I will pass my dataset through it.
Scroll down a bit.
Okay great.
So, it's actually pretty obvious now what
a histogram is doing that we saw last time
basically for every bin its just counting
how many ticks are in each bin, so for
instance the bin all the way on the left
has one tick in it so the bin is one high.
If we move to the next bin, it has zero
ticks, so it's zero high, and etc., etc.
It's just counting the number
of ticks in each bin and
then making the bar that high.
Okay.
So the kernel density plot,
what it's gonna do,
it's gonna represent each of these tick
marks with a Gaussian basis function.
So we're gonna do this manually first
before we see C born's shortcut.
So this is gonna be a big cell.
So we're gonna say rugplot, sns.rugplot.
Pass the data set.
And then we're gonna set up the x axis for
the plot.
So we need a min and a max.
So I'm gonna set the x
minimum to be equal to
the minimum value in that
dataset minus two for
some range, and I'm going to do
a similar thing for the maximum.
I'm gonna set the X max to dataset
the max value in there plus two.
Okie doke.
And in that same cell
I'm gonna set my X axis.
I'm going to set my X axis to be a hundred
equally spaced points from X min to X max.
An easy way of doing that is just by
using np.linspace, so linear spacing.
And the inputs here I'm just going
to go from my start to my stop, and
then the number of points I want.
So I want it to start at x
min stop at x_max, whoops.
And I want 100 equally spaced points.
For setting up the bandwidth, I'm just
going to use the bandwidth estimation.
Which if you're unfamiliar
with you can go down and
see here again on the Wikipedia page
the practical estimation of bandwidth.
Now we're just going to
be using this equation.
So this equation is just
the bandwidth is equal to four times
your standard deviation to
the power of five over 3 times n,
which n is doing a number
of points in your data set.
And all this to the power of 1 over 5,
or 0.2.
Okay, so let's put that
estimation equation into Python.
So I'm gonna call it the bandwidth.
And first we have that four times
the standard deviation of our dataset.
So four times and we can get standard
deviation just by calling std on
that dataset and then all of that was,
well the standard deviation
to the power of five, so we have that
part, and then the denominator of that
estimation equation was three times
the number of points in the dataset.
So to get the number of
points in the data set,
I can merely just check
the length of the dataset.
So I can use len on the dataset.
And remember that whole thing was
through the power of one over five.
Which is the same as to the power of 0.2.
Great.
So, next we're gonna create a list for
those kernels.
Remember, we're gonna have
a kernel density estimation plot,
so we're gonna set a little Gaussian
plot for each of those kernels.
So I'm going to make a kernel list.
And I'll set it as an empty list.
And now I'm going to make a little for
loop to build up that list.
For every data point in my dataset.
I'm gonna do two main things.
I'm gonna create a kernel for
each point and
append it to the kernel_list.
So how do I do that?
Well, I'll create an object called kernel,
and
I'm gonna use the SyPy
stats library to do that.
So I'm gonna say stats.norm,
cuz it's gonna be normally distributed.
I'm gonna take it on that data,
gonna make a normal continuous.
Random variable distribution.
So it's gonna take that data point,
so basically that singular tick,
and it's gonna make a normal
distribution curve using the bandwidth
estimation that we just figured out.
And then the kernel will
be the probability density
function method called off using
the x-axis that we created earlier.
And then once we have that kernel,
let's go ahead and
append it to the list we made.
All right, so that's the first part.
Create a kernel for each point and
then append it to the kernel list.
And then let's go ahead and
set up a scale for plotting.
So, I'm gonna set the scale.
I'm gonna say every kernel,
basically every Gaussian basis plot on
each of those kernels,
which we're labeling now as just kernel.
I'm gonna set it to be
divided by the max of
the kernel value, and
then I'm gonna re-size everything.
By forty percent just so
it reaches a max of 0.4.
And, then, we'll plot everything.
We'll say plt.plot along the x-axis.
Go ahead and plot that kernel.
I'm gonna set the color equal to gray.
And I'm gonna make it
a little transparent since
remember we have that red plot on top.
After all that,
I'm going to just set my y limit axis,
like we did earlier,
I'm just gonna set it from zero to one.
So before we click enter,
let's make sure we got everything right.
We're gonna create a rugplot,
set our x minimum and maximum values.
Then using linspace, create an x axis.
Value is a 100 linearly spaced
points between the min and
the max, using the practical
estimation of the bandwidth,
a Gaussian approximation, or the normal
distribution approximation basically.
We created our bandwidth,
created an empty kernel list, and then for
every data point in the data set,
we created and plotted that kernel.
All right, so
let's check if this worked out.
And there you have it.
So, you can see the ticks in color here,
and
you can see the Gaussian basis
function plot for all of them.
So that's pretty cool, and
you notice they all peak at 0.4.
Since that's what we set it to be.
So we normalized everything by the max and
then we set it to go to .4.
All right, great.
So now that we have that,
to get the kernel density estimation plot,
we need to sum all those.
So, how we do that,
we can say the sum of kde
is equal to using num pi,
np.sum of that kernel list we made.
And we'll do it along axis equal to zero.
And now we can plot that.
So I'm gonna say 'fig' for
'figure' is equal to 'plt.plot' and
I'm gonna plot along the x axis.
Gonna plot my sum of all
those kernel densities.
And then I'll set the color to be equal to
Indian red, like we previously did before.
And then I'm going to add a rugplot just
so we can good look at all the ticks.
So I'll say rugplot data set.
And then plt, let's go ahead and get rid
of the y ticks so there's no confusion,
so this will get rid of all tick marks,
by just putting an empty list there.
And then we can go ahead and
title our plot by saying suptitle.
And we'll label this as the sum
of the basis functions.
So, we're going to sum up all
those Gaussian basis functions.
Alt-enter and what do we get?
All right, great.
So now, we have the kernel
density estimation plot,
by adding up all of these Gaussian
functions for each of the tick marks.
Great.
So, we did it the long way.
We can do this one simple
step using C-Born.
This is why C-Born is so awesome.
We can use sns.kdeplot, and
just input our data set.
And there you have it So you can see that
Seaborn can to a kernel density
estimation plot just in one simple go.
And we can adjust the bandwidth of
the Seaborn KDE plot to make it more or
less sensitive to high
frequency data sets.
Okay.
So to show you what I'm talking about
let's go ahead and make a rugplot.
So I'll make another
rugplot using my data set,
and this time, I'll set the color equal
to black, so it's really visible.
Won't make it transparent, and
then I'm gonna plot kernel density
estimation plots for various bandwidths.
So I'm gonna say for bw or bandwidth,
in the num pi range, np.arange,
let's go from a bandwidth of
0.5 to 2 in steps of .25.
So for each of those bandwidths,
I'll make a kernel density estimation
plot by passing sns.kdplot on my dataset.
The bandwidth argument for
that, we can just say it's bw equals bw.
I'll set the lw value
to be equal to 1.8 and
I'm gonna label each of those plots
by their bandwidth value and you'll
see what that looks like in a second.
So let's go ahead and plot all of those.
So now you can see based on
your bandwidth choice value,
what your kernel density
estimation plot would look like.
If you specify particular bandwidth.
And just running it with
no bandwidth specified
Seaborn will automatically get
the bandwidth estimation for you.
All right, great.
And then we have all our ticks down
at the bottom of that red plot.
We can choose different types of kernels.
So, for that information you can
go ahead and check out this URL.
So this is just a Wikipedia page for
what a kernel is in statistics.
So if you're feeling a little fuzzy on
the statistics of what we just did,
you can go ahead and check out that, so
let's go ahead and check it out right now.
So we can check out, on the Wikipedia
page, the different kernel functions.
Here.
And so you can use these different
functions in C-Born if you want to.
So let's go ahead and
see how all these little different
functions work,so we can say.
Let's go ahead and
create some kernel options.
So I'll make a list
called kernel_options =.
So you have a bunch of different
kernel options like cosine or
EPA, let's make a Gaussian.
Whoops.
And you can check out the C-born
documentation or just the kernel Wikipedia
page if you wanna know more about each
particular kernel option, but, if you're
interested in this you're probably already
a pretty advanced user of statistics.
And then for
kern in kernel option we will plot,
whoops, SNS.KD plot.
We'll plot that data set and
I will set the kernel type to kern.
So, for each kern and
all of these options,
we're gonna do all of these and
then I will label it.
The current type, so let's go ahead and
see what C-Born can do.
And there you go, so you get a bunch of
different kernel density estimation plots,
based on the kernel type you want to use.
Now you can go ahead and read more about
it, either in the documentation or
just in the Wikipedia page for
what kernel functions look like.
All right, another quick thing we
could've done is do some shading.
So if you wanted to shade all
these to see where they overlap,
you could've et shade equal to true here.
Let's do it again.
And there you go,
you have shading on all of them.
So that's something you can do.
If for some reason you wanted
to plot on the vertical axis, so
the y-axis, you can do that as well.
I'll show you an example.
You can say kd plot data set and
just set vertical
equal to true and
you'll be plotting on the vertical axis.
Okay, awesome.
Finally, we can use a kd plot
also to create a cumulative distribution
function or a CDF of the data.
If you're feeling a little fuzzy on
that one as far as statistics goes,
you can just check out this URL or check
out the link of the IPython notebook.
And I'll go this link right now so
you can check out the CDF.
So it just describes the probability that
the variable X is gonna be
found in that distribution.
So if you're familiar with statistics
you're probably familiar with CDF already.
So I wanted to plot that,
I could just say sns.kdplot,
plot your data set, and
if you want the CDF,
you can just set the term,
the argument cumulative = true.
And there you have your CDF.
All right, great.
You can also do kd plots for
multidimensional data, so that would
be a multivariate density estimation.
All right, so in order to check that out
we are going to create a new data set.
So let's go ahead and make the mean or
the sensor of the data.
So I"m gonna make
an object called mean and
I'm gonna set the mean at 0, 0, so
the x and the y mean on the data set.
I'll set the covariants as well.
I'll just set two pairs, I'll go 1,
0 and 0 to 100 as those covariances.
And now, let's go ahead and
create a data set using NumPy.
Let's go ahead and call it dataset2 and
we're gonna say np.random and
then we're gonna call
a multivariate normal,
so multi-variate normal.
And here we can pass the mean,
the co-variants and the size we want.
So this is gonna draw random samples from
a multi-variate normal distribution.
So, let's go ahead and pass our mean,
our covariance values and
the number of points we want,
let's just make it 1000.
And now, it's been awhile since
we've used pandas which we
took a whole bunch of
sections to learn about.
So, we can bring that back.
Let's go ahead and
put that data into a data frame.
So, we'll say pd.dataframe.
I'm using pd because I don't think we
imported series and data frame separately.
So, I'll say dataset 2,
columns = x y, and I'm going ahead and
plot this using kdeplot.
And, so notice the really, really great
thing here before I click enter you're
using C-Born in perfect sync
with a pandas DataFrame.
Let's go ahead and see what happens,
and there you have your multi variance
density estimation, using the kdeplot and
a straight up pandas DataFrame.
If you wanted to, you could have
also passed two vectors separately.
So you could have said sns.kdeplot and
we could have just passed the X and
the Y vectors.
So I could have said dframe.x, dframe.y.
So instead of just passing
the whole data frame,
pass through two vectors separately.
Go ahead and see that and
you'll get the same thing.
Another option you can
do is you can shade.
You can do that just by passing the shade
argument, set it equal to true.
And now you have it shaded instead
of those contour lines, and
you can again specify bandwidths.
So just like we did in the other
plots up here, as far as specifying
the bandwidths, you can do the same thing.
So scroll back down.
You can say kdeplot, plot your dframe, and
again set bandwidth, bw,
equal to whatever value you want, so
I'll make it some ridiculous value once
just so we can see the heavy change.
And there you can see the bandwidth
change on your multi-variable kdeplot or
if you just wanna use the silverman
estimation that we used before,
you can actually call it by a string.
So you can say kdeplot,
call your DataFrame from pandas,
and then set your bandwidth equal
to the string silverman and
that will run your silverman
estimation bandwidth, or
silverman's rule of
thumb it's also called.
And there you have that bandwidth kay.
And then lastly,
we can also create a KDE joint plot.
So similar to the hex bin
plots we saw before I can
say sns.jointplot and let's go ahead and
we can label it X and Y for the axis.
Pass your pandas DataFrame and then if you
want to a kernel density estimation plot,
you can label it as
past jerryment kind and
then pass kde as the kind
of joint plot you want.
So this is the same as the joint plots we
did before except know we are specifying
it, that it's a kernel
density estimation plot.
Let's go ahead and do that.
And there you have it,
your two multivariate kernel
density estimation plots.
All right, so
we just went over a ton of stuff.
Go ahead and look back,
make sure you understood all of it.
This particular lecture was really
dependent on your understanding of
certain statistics, so
go back And look up on Wikipedia,
those Wikipedia links,
if you're feeling a little fuzzy or
don't remember all of those or
just need to learn them, in general.
And then you can come back and
then really understand the different
plotting techniques we just did.
Okay, so
that was kernel density estimation plots.
Up next, we're gonna learn about
combining plot styles, using this plot.
Okay, I'll see you there.